in this video will discuss the role of XML maps in excels XML Work flows.
We're working in 03 XL and XML.
That's now going to number two creating an XML map.
And to begin with,
let's open up courses that XLs X on work with the XML file that we worked with in the last
video and what we saw in the last video is that when you import an XML file,
Excel has to create an XML map in order to import the data and know which part of the
external structure goes into which column within the Excel table that it creates.
So now we'll move on to look at creating an XML map manually before you import any XML data
.
So to work with XML is restored.
In the last video,
we moved to the developer Tab on.
On the right,
we have the XML group and to work with external maps.
We click on the source button,
which makes the XML source task pain visible.
To create a map,
manually click on XML maps and then click Add,
they told the three sub folded to You'll notice that both XML and excess defiles are
displayed.
So Xsd is the schemer document and obviously XML is the XML document and you convey build
your map from either of these two documents and providing that there are no errors in the
XML file.
You should get exactly the same result regardless of which of the two use.
So let's use this scheme a document for the Courses XML file that we saw in the last video
.
Excel generates the man and you have the option of renaming the map and you'll notice that
the default consists of the original file name,
followed by Underscore map.
Let's rename it cause schedule and then click.
OK,
so within the XML source task vein,
we can now explore the structure of the XML document.
If we want to do exactly what we did in the previous video,
which is to import the XML file as is,
we can simply drag all of the elements which will generate the column headings by dragon,
their container.
So they're all contained in the course element.
We simply drag the cause element into a one,
and then we have a table which corresponds to the XML elements on which the column headings
are based Let's Undo.
But the real benefit of this workflow is that you can choose exactly which elements you
want and exactly where you'd like to display them.
So let's say that the first thing we wanted is playing out.
Table is the start date,
so I drag start dating to 81 Then let's say we want the course name,
but we don't need the category.
And next we want to move on display for all of the tutor information.
So I click on the first tutor element and then hold down control toe.
Have the other four,
and with them selected by then drag into C one.
Next,
let's have duration in price again,
control clean to select the second element,
and then we contract them in.
And finally,
let's have the three men you feels so you'll notice that everything that has Bean added to
the table is in bold.
And in fact,
the only elements I didn't add was category on that stand in plain.
When I click on an element name,
Excel highlights the corresponding column of the table.
When I click on any column within the table,
it highlights the corresponding element name in the XML source task pain.
So using this workflow,
I've been able to customize which fields I want to display on the order in which I want
them displayed in my example table.
And of course,
now,
when I import the XML file,
it's obviously going to follow the map pins that I've specified.
So we go across the developer,
clip on import and now bring in our school schedule.
As we can expect,
you'll see that Excel respects the column order that I've specified and just places the XML
into the correct column.
So let's close this file and save our changes and let's look at a second workflow.
So in the same folder,
we have a schemer document called Expenses That Access T.
And let's say this time we want to use the schema document purely to create an XML
structure,
which we can then manually populate within excel.
So let's open the Excel file that we're going to use cold staff data and then let's create
the external map.
So we click on XML maps people had,
and this time we want expenses that xsd and just to remind you that we can let's rename the
map Let's call it expense claims don't like.
Okay,
so here we're looking at the structure that we need.
So is the very simple three level structure that we've discussed.
We have the root element called expenses,
and inside that we have.
What we can assume is the repeat in element called expense on the child.
Elements of expense are meant to contain the actual data,
so they will become our column headings.
And as before,
we can generate a table simply by tracking all of the fields into a one on.
Then we've got them in exactly the same order as the originals.
Let's undo.
Let's do a bit of customization,
so we'll have the person's name first.
Then we'll have a date.
Let's have a date reimbursed next.
Then let's have their brunch,
the category under which the expense claim fools And finally,
the amounts so amount claimed and amount reinvest on.
What we can then do is to complete the table by inserting a calculated column.
So let's say we'd like to keep track of the percentage that was reimbursed.
So this part of our table is static and it lives in excel only because there's no
corresponding XML element.
When we export this data,
the percentage reimbursed will not be exported with the XML.
So we can now enter data knowing that it's going to conform to the schemer off our proposed
XML documents on at any point in the future,
we could either import XML into this structure or we could enter data into the structure
within excel and then export that data as XML.